NAME: Neil Sonnenberg
EMAIL: sonnenbergneil@gmail.com
ID: 204748664

lab0.c:
lab0.c contains the source code for Project 0. This code by default copies stdin to stdout
using the read(2) and write(2) commands on file descriptors 0 and 1. It also supports argument
parameters using the getopt-long API which allows the user to pass in an input file to use instead
of stdin with --input and an output file to use instead of stdout with --output. It also supports 
two additional parameters in --segfault and --catch which cause a segmentation fault and catch
segmentation faults. It catchs segmentation faults using the signal API.

Makefile:
Makefile includes all the targets mentioned in the project specification. 
default: 
Builds the executable lab0 using the argument flags -g -Wall -Wextra
dist:
Creates the tarball of all the necessary files as specified in the project specification.
This will print out an error message if one of the files is not present in the directory
make dist is called from. However, it will still make the tarball with the remaining files.
check:
Contains smoke-test scripts to test the various basic things mentioned in the specification.
This runs 6 tests. The first tests the program on copying STDIN to STDOUT which is the default
no argument capability of the program. The next 3 tests check if the program exits with the correct
exit codes which would are 1 for an invalid argument, 2 for bad input file, and 3 for a bad output
file. The next test checked the --input and --output arguments and the last test checked the
--segfault and --catch arguments. If a test fails, it appends a file called log.txt with the
error.
clean:
Removes the executable and tarball.

README:
Contains information about the project.

backtrace.png:
A screenshot of the stacktrace in gdb after a segmentation fault when running the backtrace command.

breakpoint.png:
A screenshot of gdb showing a breakpoint on the line of code which causes the segmentation fault. Also
contains a printing of the variable showing that it is a nullptr.